docs/resources/image.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "windbag_image Resource - terraform-provider-windbag"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Specify the image to build.
---

# Resource `windbag_image`

Specify the image to build.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "windbag_image" "example" {

  # specify the path to build,
  # like "docker build ...",
  # default is the current directory.
  path = ""

  # specify the build-time arguments,
  # like "docker build --build-arg=...".
  build_arg = {}

  # specify the name of the building Dockerfile,
  # like "docker build --file=...",
  # default is "Dockerfile".
  file = ""

  # specify to remove intermediate containers,
  # like "docker build --force-rm"
  # default is "false".
  force_rm = false

  # specify the isolation technology of container,
  # like "docker build --isolation=...",
  # default is "process".
  isolation = ""

  # specify the metadata label,
  # like "docker build --label=...".
  label = {}

  # specify to do not use the cache,
  # like "docker build --no-cache",
  # default is "false".
  no_cache = false

  # specify to remove intermediate containers after a successful build,
  # like "docker build --rm"
  # default is "true".
  rm = true

  # specify the list of the built artifact name,
  # like "docker build --tag=...".
  tag = []

  # specify the target of build stage to build,
  # like "docker build --target=...".
  target = ""

  # specify to always push the built artifact,
  # default is "false".
  force_push = false

  # specify to push the build artifact if the digest has changed,
  # default is "true".
  push = true

  # specify the timeout to push,
  # default is "15m".
  push_timeout = "15m"

  # Specify the authentication registry of registry.
  registry {

    # specify the address of registry.
    address = ""

    # specify the username of registry credential.
    username = ""

    # specify the password of registry credential.
    password = ""

    # specify the timeout of login,
    # default is "5m".
    login_timeout = "5m"
  }

  # specify the workers to build image,
  # and manifest the image in the latest release worker.
  worker {

    # specify the address of worker.
    address = ""

    # specify the working directory of worker.
    work_dir = ""

    # specify to use SSH to login the worker.
    ssh {

      # specify the username for authenticating the worker,
      # default is "root".
      username = ""

      # specify the password for authenticating the worker.
      password = ""

      # specify the content of Private Key to authenticate.
      key = ""

      # specify the content of Certificate to sign the Private Key.
      cert = ""

      # specify to use ssh-agent to manage the login certificate,
      # default is "false".
      with_agent = false

      # specify the timeout of dialing retry,
      # default is "10m".
      retry_timeout = "10m"

    }
  }

}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **tag** (List of String) Specify the name of the built artifact, and use the repository of the last item as this resource ID.
- **worker** (Block Set, Min: 1) Specify the workers to build. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--worker))

### Optional

- **build_arg** (Map of String) Specify the build-time arguments.
- **disable_target_platform_args_injection** (Boolean) Specify whether to disable the target platform arguments injection, ref to https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#automatic-platform-args-in-the-global-scope.
- **file** (String) Specify the path of the building Dockerfile.
- **force_rm** (Boolean) Specify to remove intermediate containers. Defaults to `false`.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **isolation** (String) Specify the isolation technology of container.
- **label** (Map of String) Specify the metadata label.
- **manifest** (Boolean) Specify to manifest the build artifact. Defaults to `true`.
- **manifest_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to manifest pre tag. Defaults to `15m`.
- **no_cache** (Boolean) Specify the isolation technology of container. Defaults to `false`.
- **path** (String) Specify the path to build.
- **push** (Boolean) Specify to push the build artifact. Defaults to `true`.
- **push_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to push pre build tag. Defaults to `15m`.
- **registry** (Block Set) Specify the authentication registry of registry. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--registry))
- **rm** (Boolean) Specify to remove intermediate containers after a successful build. Defaults to `true`.
- **target** (String) Specify the target of build stage to build.
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

<a id="nestedblock--worker"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker`

Required:

- **address** (String) Specify the address of worker.
- **ssh** (Block Set, Min: 1, Max: 1) Specify to use SSH to login the worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--worker--ssh))

Optional:

- **work_dir** (String) Specify the working directory of worker. Defaults to `C:/etc/windbag`.

Read-only:

- **build_context** (Set of Object) Observed the build context of worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--worker--build_context))
- **build_information** (Set of Object) Observed the build information of worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--worker--build_information))

<a id="nestedblock--worker--ssh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.ssh`

Optional:

- **cert** (String) Specify the content of Certificate to authenticate.
- **key** (String, Sensitive) Specify the content of Private Key to authenticate.
- **password** (String, Sensitive) Specify the password for authenticating the worker.
- **retry_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to retry dialing. Defaults to `10m`.
- **username** (String) Specify the username for authenticating the worker. Defaults to `root`.
- **with_agent** (Boolean) Specify to use ssh-agent to manage the login credential. Defaults to `false`.


<a id="nestedatt--worker--build_context"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.build_context`

Read-only:

- **buildpath** (String)
- **dockerfile** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--worker--build_information"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.build_information`

Read-only:

- **os_arch** (String)
- **os_build** (Number)
- **os_major** (Number)
- **os_minor** (Number)
- **os_release** (String)
- **os_ubr** (Number)



<a id="nestedblock--registry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `registry`

Required:

- **password** (String, Sensitive) Specify the password of the registry credential.
- **username** (String) Specify the username of the registry credential.

Optional:

- **address** (String) Specify the address of the registry. Defaults to `docker.io`.
- **login_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to login. Defaults to `5m`.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **create** (String)
- **default** (String)
- **delete** (String)
- **read** (String)
- **update** (String)

Commit message:

feat: support release related build arguments injection

docs/resources/image.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "windbag_image Resource - terraform-provider-windbag"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Specify the image to build.
---

# Resource `windbag_image`

Specify the image to build.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "windbag_image" "example" {

  # specify the path to build,
  # like "docker build ...",
  # default is the current directory.
  path = ""

  # specify the build-time arguments,
  # like "docker build --build-arg=...".
  build_arg = {}

  # specify the name of the building Dockerfile,
  # like "docker build --file=...",
  # default is "Dockerfile".
  file = ""

  # specify to remove intermediate containers,
  # like "docker build --force-rm"
  # default is "false".
  force_rm = false

  # specify the isolation technology of container,
  # like "docker build --isolation=...",
  # default is "process".
  isolation = ""

  # specify the metadata label,
  # like "docker build --label=...".
  label = {}

  # specify to do not use the cache,
  # like "docker build --no-cache",
  # default is "false".
  no_cache = false

  # specify to remove intermediate containers after a successful build,
  # like "docker build --rm"
  # default is "true".
  rm = true

  # specify the list of the built artifact name,
  # like "docker build --tag=...".
  tag = []

  # specify the target of build stage to build,
  # like "docker build --target=...".
  target = ""

  # specify to always push the built artifact,
  # default is "false".
  force_push = false

  # specify to push the build artifact if the digest has changed,
  # default is "true".
  push = true

  # specify the timeout to push,
  # default is "15m".
  push_timeout = "15m"

  # Specify the authentication registry of registry.
  registry {

    # specify the address of registry.
    address = ""

    # specify the username of registry credential.
    username = ""

    # specify the password of registry credential.
    password = ""

    # specify the timeout of login,
    # default is "5m".
    login_timeout = "5m"
  }

  # specify the workers to build image,
  # and manifest the image in the latest release worker.
  worker {

    # specify the address of worker.
    address = ""

    # specify the working directory of worker.
    work_dir = ""

    # specify to use SSH to login the worker.
    ssh {

      # specify the username for authenticating the worker,
      # default is "root".
      username = ""

      # specify the password for authenticating the worker.
      password = ""

      # specify the content of Private Key to authenticate.
      key = ""

      # specify the content of Certificate to sign the Private Key.
      cert = ""

      # specify to use ssh-agent to manage the login certificate,
      # default is "false".
      with_agent = false

      # specify the timeout of dialing retry,
      # default is "10m".
      retry_timeout = "10m"

    }
  }

}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **tag** (List of String) Specify the name of the built artifact, and use the repository of the last item as this resource ID.
- **worker** (Block Set, Min: 1) Specify the workers to build. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--worker))

### Optional

- **build_arg** (Map of String) Specify the build-time arguments.
- **build_arg_release_mapper** (Block List) Specify the release related build-time arguments mapper. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--build_arg_release_mapper))
- **disable_release_build_args_injection** (Boolean) Specify whether to disable the release related build arguments injection, ref to https://registry.terraform.io/providers/thxCode/windbag/latest/docs#highlight.
- **disable_target_platform_args_injection** (Boolean) Specify whether to disable the target platform arguments injection, ref to https://registry.terraform.io/providers/thxCode/windbag/latest/docs#highlight.
- **file** (String) Specify the path of the building Dockerfile.
- **force_rm** (Boolean) Specify to remove intermediate containers. Defaults to `false`.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **isolation** (String) Specify the isolation technology of container.
- **label** (Map of String) Specify the metadata label.
- **manifest** (Boolean) Specify to manifest the build artifact. Defaults to `true`.
- **manifest_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to manifest pre tag. Defaults to `15m`.
- **no_cache** (Boolean) Specify the isolation technology of container. Defaults to `false`.
- **path** (String) Specify the path to build.
- **push** (Boolean) Specify to push the build artifact. Defaults to `true`.
- **push_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to push pre build tag. Defaults to `15m`.
- **registry** (Block Set) Specify the authentication registry of registry. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--registry))
- **rm** (Boolean) Specify to remove intermediate containers after a successful build. Defaults to `true`.
- **target** (String) Specify the target of build stage to build.
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

<a id="nestedblock--worker"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker`

Required:

- **address** (String) Specify the address of worker.
- **ssh** (Block Set, Min: 1, Max: 1) Specify to use SSH to login the worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--worker--ssh))

Optional:

- **work_dir** (String) Specify the working directory of worker. Defaults to `C:/etc/windbag`.

Read-only:

- **build_context** (Set of Object) Observed the build context of worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--worker--build_context))
- **build_information** (Set of Object) Observed the build information of worker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--worker--build_information))

<a id="nestedblock--worker--ssh"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.ssh`

Optional:

- **cert** (String) Specify the content of Certificate to authenticate.
- **key** (String, Sensitive) Specify the content of Private Key to authenticate.
- **password** (String, Sensitive) Specify the password for authenticating the worker.
- **retry_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to retry dialing. Defaults to `10m`.
- **username** (String) Specify the username for authenticating the worker. Defaults to `root`.
- **with_agent** (Boolean) Specify to use ssh-agent to manage the login credential. Defaults to `false`.


<a id="nestedatt--worker--build_context"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.build_context`

Read-only:

- **buildpath** (String)
- **dockerfile** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--worker--build_information"></a>
### Nested Schema for `worker.build_information`

Read-only:

- **os_arch** (String)
- **os_build** (Number)
- **os_major** (Number)
- **os_minor** (Number)
- **os_release** (String)
- **os_ubr** (Number)



<a id="nestedblock--build_arg_release_mapper"></a>
### Nested Schema for `build_arg_release_mapper`

Required:

- **release** (String) Specify the release ID of worker.

Optional:

- **build_arg** (Map of String) Specify the build-time arguments of related release.


<a id="nestedblock--registry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `registry`

Required:

- **password** (String, Sensitive) Specify the password of the registry credential.
- **username** (String) Specify the username of the registry credential.

Optional:

- **address** (String) Specify the address of the registry. Defaults to `docker.io`.
- **login_timeout** (String) Specify the timeout to login. Defaults to `5m`.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **create** (String)
- **default** (String)
- **delete** (String)
- **read** (String)
- **update** (String)
